Now that we've taken a look at
how to open up our data layer
attribute table, we're going to
take a look at our data layer
properties.
So to do this, we're going to
look at the biomonitoring Ziama
2019 layer.
We'll select this, right click,
and then on the menu that pops
up we can go to the bottom and
choose properties.
And this is going to bring up
this layer properties window,
which has all the properties
associated with this data layer.
So we have lots of different
tabs here that we can look at.
We're in information right now,
which is just giving us a bit of
information about the layer like
where it's come from, but we're
going to take a look at source.
So in source you can change the
name of your data layer.
It's good practice to change the
names of your data layers so
that they're easy to read and to
know what you're working with.
So let's change this just
biomonitoring points so it's
nice and clear what it is.
Another thing we can look at in
our layer properties is what
coordinate system our data layer
was collected or created in.
We can look at this just
underneath where it says
assigned coordinate reference
system.
So in the box underneath this,
it tells us that our data layer
is in the coordinate system WGS
84.
If we want to find out a little
bit more about this, we can
hover our mouse over this box
and it brings up this window
which tells us the exact
information about this
coordinate system.
So if we look at the the first
line within this window that's
come up, we can see that it says
GEOG CRS.
So this is standing for
Geographic Coordinate system or
Coordinate Reference system.
So it's telling us that this
data layer is in a GCS and it's
also giving us the name again,
so WGS 84.
So the last thing we're going to
look at in properties now is the
metadata.
So we're going to do this by
clicking on the Metadata tab,
and we can see that within this
Metadata tab we've got lots of
different options for adding in
metadata.
But you can also see that this
data layer doesn't have any
metadata yet.
Metadata is really useful when
you're sharing data layers, as
it helps the user to understand
what the data is showing.
So let's add some metadata to
our biomonitoring points.
So first of all, in title we can
put biomonitoring points.
And the other thing we'll add is
a description of our data layer
within the abstract.
So in here we're going to put
locations of biomonitoring
points of species within and
nearby the Ziama protected area,
and these points were collected
from the 14th of the 1st 2019 to
the 23rd of the 1st 2020.
And we'll also tell them that
the XY coordinates of the
locations are given, as well as
the species and the type of
indication.
So now if we were to send this
data layer to someone and they
weren't sure what this data
layer is representing, what
these points represent, they can
check this metadata and they can
get this information and
understand what this data is
showing.
And so we'll just click the
apply to make sure we save our
changes.
And that's it.
That's how to look at the
properties of your data layers.